Gaddis Chapter 10 , pg 693 , Short Answers

1. What is an "is-a" relationship ?

A: "is-a" referrs to a subclass relationship to a superclass
   it means the subclass has all of the characteristics fo the superclass
   plus specilized attributes that make it differ from the superclass

2. A program uses two class Animal and Dog. Which class is the superclass
   and which class is the subclass ?

A: Animal is the superclass, Dog is the subclass (Dog "is-a" Animal )


3. What is the superclass and what is the subclass in the following line?

   public class Pet extends Dog

A: Dog is the superclass , Pet is the subclass


4. What is the difference between a protected class member and a private class member?

   private class members are only accessible to methods within the class, no outside
   class can access private members, regardless of wether its a subclass or which package
   it's in.

   protected class members are accessible to any class within the same package or
   any class that is a subclass and the subclass can be the same package or 
   a different package.

5. Can a subclass every directly access private members of a superclass ?

   No

6. Which constructor is called first,that of the superclass or that of the subclass?

   The superclass constructor is called first, for the good reason that the subclass
   may need to access properities from the superclass.

7. What is the difference between overriding a method and overloading a superclass method?

   overriding is reimplementing the superclass method in the subclass and keeping the
   method signature the exact same.

   overloading is changing the signature of the superclass method but keeping the name 
   the same.

   example ASuperClass {
      public int x;

      public int add( int a ) {
         return x + a;
      }
   }

   example ASubClass extends ASuperClass {
       public y;

      public int add( int a ) {   <- This is an example of overriding 
         return y + a;               add from ASuperClass is reimplementd in ASubClass
      }

      public int add( ASubClass x ) {  <- this is an example of overloading
         return y + x.y;                  the signature of add is changed to the "ASubClass"
      }                                   instead of int

   }

8. Reference Variables can be polymorphic, what does this mean?


   It means that a Reference Varaible of a superclass can be assigned to a subclass
   instance and will still take on the properities of the subclass.


   Using the code example from 7

   ASuperClass S = new ASubClass();
   System.out.println(S.add());  <- this S.add will call ASubClass add

9. When does dynamic binding take place ?

   Dynamic binding takes place at runtime , when a class contaisn a polymorphic reference.
   The JVM determines which method to call based on the type of object the variable references.

10. What is an abstract method?

   An abstract method is a method which contains a signature but no implementation.
   It must be impelemted by a subclass.

11. What is an abstract class ?
   
   An abstract class is a class that can't be instantiated.  It may also contain
   an abstract method.  It typically referrs to a high level notion.

12. What are the differences between an abstract class and an interface

   An abstract class can contain public,private and protected class members
   and methods, as well as static and non-static functions.   It may also contain
   abstract methods and implemented methods. A subclass can only extend 1 Abstract class.
   

   An interface contains only public non-static method declarations and can't implement any
   of the methods.  It can only contain final static members.




   




   
